So in the last lecture we imported this post from the Gutenberg plugin. And this post has some content. And it uses some
of the Gutenberg features. So Gutenberg is a block based Post editor
where you can add blocks and here we have some blocks. And we can also drag and drop these blocks like so.
So this post was made to showcase some of these Gutenberg blocks.
So we have for example, the gallery block and we have some images that takes a wider width than the content.
And we have videos and stuff like that.
Blockquotes and the buttons.
So let's view this post in the frontend. And let's take a look and you'll find that WordPress already styled
some of the stuff like the gallery. It's already styled like how it's styled in the editor.
But we also have some stuff that looks different.
Right?
So for example we have the image that takes wider width than the content.
And we also have some blocks here that also take wider width than the content.
But unlike this one this takes the full width.
This is just a bit wider and same for the video here.
And also we have a blockquote here and here. They look a bit different.
And one of the reasons Gutenberg was created is to give you as a post editor, when you're creating
the post it should give you an idea of how this post to look like in the frontend.
So let's try and do that.
Let's first tackle the images or the blocks that are aligned a bit wider than the content. Or they just
take the full width like this image.
So how do we do that?
Let's go to theme-support. And this is a feature in Gutenberg that your theme will have to support. So before
typing anything here if you take a look at an image block you'll find that you can align left or center
or right. But your theme can also decide to add some more alignments. So let's "add_theme_support()" and this feature
is called "align-wide". So let's save and let's see what difference this will make.
So if you now click on this component. And this is called the cover image component which is an image with
some text on top of it. And as you can see now we have two other options: Wide width or Full width.
So add_theme_support() added these two options here.
But we  still, we don't style these options correctly in the frontend.
So what we have now is some classes "alignwide". And  here we will have "alignfull" and all we need
to do is in our CSS for the theme we need to style these in order to look something like this,
right?
So we've already done that in the CSS, in _post.scss.
But I just removed it in order to see what it would look like before adding these classes.
So I added this classes only for the o-single-post-full.
So these classes only be added for the full layout blog post and you'll see why in a moment.
So let's uncomment these.
So I just added some styles, some negative margins.
Let's take a look.
So let's take a look first at the "alignfull".
So here for example I have this container which is 75rem and also some paddings 0.625 on the left
and right. And then inside this container we have our content in the post__inner and this has a maximum
width of 50.
So we have 75 and 50.
So this empty space and this empty space combined will be 25rem.
So each one of these sides is 12.5rem.
So what I did for the "alignfull" is that I added a negative margin of -12.5 .
And also we have the padding. And the maximum width of 75rem which is this full width minus
the paddings on the left and right which will be 1.25rem. And that's what made
it stretch to the full width
as you can see. So of course this CSS styles only concerns
my template or my styling.
So I don't want to get into more details because probably yours will be different. But I just want to
give you an idea of how should you style these.
So we have for example the "alignwide" and this should not take the full width but also should be a little
bit wider than the content.
So we have the text here and this is the main content's width. And "alignwide" should be a little bit wider
than this width.
So I just added a margin left of -100 pixels on both sides.
I also find out for the video.
So make the video responsive or take the full width of the container we have here a class called "is-type-video"
and that wraps the video iframe.
And this also has "alignwide" so it's a bit wider than the content.
So to make the video responsive I added some styles for the is-video-type.
Right?
So if you have "wp-block" of type "embed" and it's a video and these are the classes that Gutenberg
gives to your blocks.
So I just added these classes for it to make it responsive. So let's save.
And now the video will take the width of the container.
I also found out for example that this block, the cover image block it needs to take some exercise
for the "alignwide" and "alignfull".
So I added this style here for example.
It needs a "width: auto".
So if we save this it will take the full width of the container.
So as I mentioned this might be different for you. But all you have to do is to make sure that the
"alignwide" and "alignfull" are working as they should work in your frontend.
So one more thing we can do, as I mentioned the Gutenberg editor should give you a good idea on how the post will
look like in the frontend. So it shouldn't be exactly the same but at least you can try to style these
components here to look like a frontend.
So how do we do that? We can go to the enqueue-assets.
It's so in the lib folder.
enqueue-assets. You can add a new action here.
And this action is called "enqueue_
"enqueue_block_editor_assets"
And let's give it a function "_themename
"_themenamelook_block_editor_assets". And what this action will do is that it will allow you to enqueue some CSS only in the Gutengerg
page. So let's create a file first in the css. Let's create a new file in the scss folder called editor.
And then we'll have to go to the gulpfile in order to add this file here.
So let's copy this just change this to editor.
So this file will be compiled when we save it. But now we need to enqueue it. Se we've done this a lot so
let's copy the bundle and it will be the same thing.
But let's just change the "handle". Let's call it
"block_editor_styles". And it'll be "editor.css". So what you can do in this file? This file will be enqueued
in this page, in the Gutenberg editor.
So what you can do is you can inspect and see what styles you need to change and change them.
So for example let's say our background and the frontend was blue for instance.
And we need the Gutenberg editor to look roughly like the frontend.
So we'll go to the body and you'll find that the body for the Gutenberg page has this class "gutenberg-editor
"gutenberg-editor-page".
And then you'll go to the editor.scss.
And then
And we should have this file now in the list. All right. When we modify the gulpfile we need to rerun
"npm start".
As you can see we now have a blue background and this will just be for Gutenberg page.
So this of course can apply to any block here or any item.
So these blockquotes for example you can style them to match the blockquotes here.
So let's remove this.
So in this file you can also import any fonts that you  use in your theme in the frontend so to
be enqueued in the Gutenberg page.
You can also import some elements that you use in your  frontend in your SASS components if that's
gonna help you in the Gutenberg editor.
So for example we mentioned the blockquotes styles. Instead of rewriting these whole styles again you
can maybe import elements and typography.
And this is where I styled the blockquote. And I think that will  be all what you need to do about Gutenberg
right now. Of course by the time Gutenberg arrives more things will appear.
I'll keep you updated.
One final thing I would like to mention is probably I'm not sure if it will be in this course or another
course it will depend on how much content it will be. But I will probably make some lectures about how
to create your own blocks here.
So WordPress allows us to do that and this will be a great feature. But I'm not sure yet if it will fit
this course or it will need another one.
But anyways I will keep you updated.
So I think that's it for Gutenberg now.
Let's move on to the next section.